{"lang":"en","availableLangs":["en"],"content":"Hello everyone. I'm Paxton Gray, CEO of 97th floor and this is the campaign. Thank you for joining us today for another episode of the campaign where we talk with\nmarketing leaders about better knowing your audience, innovating beyond best practice and converting visitors into customers. The campaign is produced by 97th floor, a digital marketing agency designed to build\nworld-class organic and paid channel strategies for mid-level and enterprise organizations. You can find past episodes of the campaign on YouTube, iTunes, Spotify, and at 97th\nfloor.com. Today's guest is Dr. Marie Haynes. We're really excited to have her back on the show. She's always dig into the latest changes in AI and how it pertains to marketing. As things change at an increasingly rapid rate, you can never talk too much about the\nlatest in AI. This episode, we're going to cover agentic AI and language models, and Maria is sharing\nsome practical advice on how to actually start using AI in a productive way. Let's get into it. All right, Marie, thank you so much for joining us today. I'm really excited to be talking with you again. Yeah, thanks for having me, Paxton. It's always great having a conversation with you. Yeah, your episodes are always some of my favorites I love how you're always looking to\nexplore and try new things and you're very much at the cutting edge of a lot of Tech coming out these days and so I'd love to maybe start off By having you say like what are\nyou doing lately? Like what are some of the projects you're working on right now? Yeah, I'm probably working on too many things right now. so much opportunity. It's hard to know where to focus. So I would say my number one thing that I'm trying to learn more about right now is\nagents. We talked a little bit about agents last time. And I think we're just in the very early phases of agents starting to change the web. I'm learning. I'm currently taking Google's uh five-day intensive course on actually creating agents, like coding them with Google's Agent Development Kit. And it's challenging, but I think that they're really good skills to have. So agents, I'm working on my community, the search bar, where we have a bunch of us that\nare just talking. Yesterday we had this fantastic chat about how everybody is using AI uh to improve their\nworkload and workflow basically. so yeah, working on community. And then I have a small... handful of clients that I'm helping guide through this transition of, you know, there's so\nmuch to know about how search has changed. Almost every day something changes in search. so, uh yeah, so it's kind of my job to stay on top of all those things and then\ncommunicate that to my clients. Not an easy task these days. Uh, it's not, it, it's funny. I, feels very much like SEO felt back in like 2007, 2008 era. when there's like a lot of different stuff would work and then wouldn't work. And there's so much to test and there's so much unknown. And it's really exciting actually. It's like, uh, so many different tests to run and, it's really like speed and willingness\nto. forego some of the old learnings and like adopt new learnings. That's the key to staying on the cutting edge right now versus when things are more\nstagnant. It's about size and it's about investment to stay on the cutting edge. So to me, I'm like, I'm very excited about like what's going on, but you're right. It is a lot to keep up with and it's what was relevant just six months ago isn't relevant\nreally today or a lot of it at least. it's wild too, because like a few years ago, if I wanted to learn what's working in SEO,\nwe had a whole community of people that would happily share, you know, this is what we're doing. This is the success we've had. And now it's all, like you said, it's all kind of new again, you know? And uh a lot of the people who are actively sharing what's working, like I don't even,\nthey're not actually providing any proof, you know? And so I think we see, uh I think it's very difficult to know what we should be doing. So I think what you guys are doing, you told me just briefly a little bit about how your\nteam learns AI and shares with each other about what's working. Like I think that's the only way to do it, you know, is test things and then see what\nworks. But even then all of the AI systems, like whether it's AI mode, chat GPT, wherever you're\ntrying to get seen, they're changing daily too. So, you know, something that worked for you yesterday, you might not be successful, you\nknow, a week from now. Um, I saw a study, I don't know if you saw this href study, uh, today that said that AI\noverviews change every two days. And 50, I think they said 56 % of the entities that were mentioned in the AI overviews are\ndifferent every time that they change. So. All of these tools that are like, here's how you rank in AI overviews. Like they're, they're, we're really just guessing. It's wild, right? Yeah. That measurement piece is one of the most, I think, frustrating things that right now\nwhere it's like every, the best thing we can do is sample and extrapolate from that sample. But really that's insufficient when it comes to like actually getting a true status of\nwhere things are. Um, I had this experience going to like, what I've noticed is conference attendance in our\nindustry has gone. through the roof, like way up from where it was just three years ago. COVID brought it down and it never really came back to what it was. But now it's like, boom. And it's because everybody's like, what's going on? Yeah. And the funny thing is, is nobody knows, like nobody really knows. So like the, the top of the top, they know maybe 5 % more than what most people know. And so they're coming to these conferences wanting to know what's going on. And they're just hearing like, everyone says the same thing over and over again. like well yeah because That's where we are right now. Like all that knowledge was brought boom down and we're at a kind of a new building stage\nagain. I'm starting to develop this view though that I want to share it with you because I think\nthat there's a group of us that have worked really hard to understand how AI works and how language models work. there's like, there's an article from a couple of years ago. Oh, I can't remember who wrote it now, but it's called how chat GPT works. And like, it was just fascinating to learn how vector search works. and, you know, and so a bunch of us have these theories and some of them have worked like relatively well in terms of ranking for vector search, but\nthen it all comes down to uh how people actually interact. Like I'm jumping ahead a bit here, but you know how in Google's uh the DOJ versus Google\ntrial, there was a whole bunch of information that came out about NavBoost and about the role of user signals. And so here we are trying to learn like, how do we make it so that the machines the algorithms think our content is the best or our website or our business is the best. And then once you get there, really all of it, like the AI systems predict what to put in\nfront of people and then they get fine tuned by what users actually choose. Right. And I think that the industry is missing that last part, which is the most important part. So a lot of what we are trying to learn now, the stuff that we're learning at conferences,\nthe stuff that we're sharing is really just the the beginning part of looking good to machines when ultimately all that really matters\nonce you're there is that you're like the best result for people. And so that's where I want to put my focus is I'm trying to spend a bit more time in GA4\nmetrics, looking at engagement metrics and uh really looking not so much at like, did keyword rankings improve? Because keyword rankings like, with prompts don't really matter so much now. know, like if I've got a 400 word prompt, that's not a keyword, you know? uh So did I actually improve the amount of time people spend on my site? Did I improve the number of clicks that I got? uh Those factors that kind of indicate that I've satisfied users. So I think we're gonna see a shift soon where, yeah, we'll still wanna kind of reverse\nengineer, like how does the query fan out work and things like that. But it's changing so much that ultimately what it's gonna come down to is like, did I\nsatisfy users? That's really all that's gonna matter. And it's interesting that that's all that should have mattered really from really the\nbeginning. em Yeah, you're right. It's at a point where, you know, if I'm looking at some analytics and I see some page jump\nup and get all this traffic, you can pretty well predict if that's going to stay or if it's going to go by looking at the page. You'll have these very poor quality pages with no good CTAs, no good engagement. Yeah, it's ranking low right now, but I bet you in a month from now or a couple of months,\nit's not going to be ranking well because it's not going to be getting some good signals from Google. so like Google's testing it out. Yeah, I think it's one of the most overlooked metrics really in SEO overall. I actually think we can do more harm than good by knowing how the AI systems work. Because I think that if you optimize for vector search, I don't know, I can't remember how\nmuch we've talked about that before, but uh really optimizing for vector search is like understanding the questions users have and making sure you've answered them in succinct. It's really that simple. If you do a really good job at optimizing for vector search, then Google systems are gonna\npredict that you should rank well. And that sounds good, right? But if the user signals don't align, like if you've done a great job at convincing the\nmachines, but then users are like, well, it was kind of boring, or it's the same stuff I just read in the AI overview, or uh whatever, for whatever reason, you're not the right\nplace that satisfied them, then Google needs to adjust their calculations in terms of where to put you. And so you're essentially teaching Google systems uh to downplay their opinion of your, your site. see what I'm saying? Is that like, think that, um, yeah, no, I just think, I think it's like, it's like, almost\nlike a gambling type thing that you like, you, you feel you have this great success at the beginning. Um, and then, you want to keep chasing that because, you know, it looks really good when\nyou've done a bunch of changes and then you're ranking in the AI overview. Uh, but then if that doesn't stick, it's very hard to, to convince Google that, oh actually, this is the page that satisfies users. So I'm trying to shift my focus a little bit now from, yes, I want to pay attention to\nvector search and to the things that AI likes, but most important, you know when Google came out with that documentation years ago on creating helpful content? Like that was the reason behind that. uh if those are the things, the list of like there's 20 or so things that Google gives us. uh original insight, original research, that type of thing that people like. So really, I think it all comes down to satisfying people. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with that. obviously I think our industry has struggled for the long longest time around, you know,\nthis debate of like optimizing for machines, optimizing for humans. And one, one extreme, you know, is the optimizing for machines. It's terrible content does rank, but like to what end really? Uh, the other end of that extreme is, you know, the, Hey, just do good stuff and just trust that it will rank and there's a lot of cases where that\ndoesn't. So it's got to be somewhere in between those. But I agree that I think largely the industry over indexes on optimizing for bots. um And that's probably due to just we want to be able to predict outcomes. And unfortunately, there's a certain degree of ambiguity and serendipity that is just\ninvolved in our roles. um But anyway, so I love that. think that's a great focus. Um, I'd love to talk about some of your processes. So, uh, actually before we do that, let's talk about agents. When we talked about agentic AI last time, it was a few months ago. And I remember walking with thing like, man, so excited about, you know, this to develop. And then I was just kept getting hung up on like, are people really going to be going and\nbuilding their own agents? Um, you know, like. my mom's not gonna go build an agent. And then it was around that time that uh the Dia browser came out and um there was some\nbasically add-ons. So it's like, hey, this is Chrome, but there's an agent built in. And then I realized, oh, this is where the majority of agentic AI is going to come. It's gonna just be layered into stuff that you're already doing. You're, however, still building. And so I wanna know, Like what is your opinion on that? Do you think we will get to a point where people are building, maybe they're just not\ndoing it in a technical way, or is it just gonna be like subtly slipped into the tech that we're already using and already know? think the latter is more true for most people. So I think it's just like websites, like some people build websites, but more people use\nwebsites than build websites, right? So there's going to be, uh I mean, the agents that I'm building are things that just help\nme with my day-to-day work or things that help me assess content like I would uh and help me do things faster and... uh And then I hope to eventually be able to sell those agents uh where you know, maybe\nyour agency wants to uh To buy my processes, you know, and it can benefit you But I think for the average person where we're gonna see the most use of agents is in Chrome so uh I\ndon't know if you've used it. I don't have it in Canada yet, but Gemini is in Chrome and Right now it's really simple, it'll be something like you can hit the button and go summarize this\npage. Like, okay, that's potentially helpful, but it's not world changing. just, well, yesterday, I know you're gonna be showing this in the future, but yesterday,\nas we're recording this, Google announced agentic shopping changes. uh so in AI mode, you'll be able to have a conversation and say, know, I'm trying to plan shopping for my kids and here's what they like. And can you compare products for me? And it'll make like a comparison chart of products. That's, that's nothing terribly new, but what is new is that you're going to be able to do\nprice tracking. And I can say to AI mode, keep an eye on this product. And if the price goes below a hundred dollars, buy it for me. That's the agentic part. then Gemini acts as my agent. price goes under $100, it sends me a message and says, hey, Marie, the price is now $98. Do you want me to go ahead and purchase? I need to give it permission. And then Gemini goes and purchases it for me. That's kind of wild, right? And so we're going to remove that little bit of friction of like, if I wanted to buy that,\nthen I, you know, in the past, I would have to go to the website. I'd have to... put it in my shopping cart, I'd have to navigate, fill out my credit card information. uh It's removing all of those barriers where now I can uh just not even click a button, I\ncan just tell my agent, I want you to go buy this for me. So that's agentic shopping right there. Now, the other um way, I mean, there's multiple ways. I think that we haven't even conceived of the ways that agents will be used. So for example, I have a client who um their main revenue comes from uh lead gen from a\nform. And uh so we're talking about, AI mode eat them up or will they have an advantage because\nthey're working on building agents that make it so you don't need to fill out the form, that it basically uh connects with... um We're hoping that maybe Chrome will allow us to agentically fill out the form with what\ninformation Chrome's got about you. uh recently Google announced that you'll be able to give, I know this is going to make\npeople shudder, but your passport information, your driver's license information, and you can have Chrome fill that out for you in forms. And so they want to make it so that they have an agent that you essentially just have a\nconversation with the agent, and then the agent essentially fills out the form for you. So it takes some of the mundane work uh out of using that website basically. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. That's very interesting. Um, how are you using agents in your day to day? And let me preface this by saying, I think there's a lot of people who have been very\nexcited about AI and they've jumped in and they've built some stuff and it didn't quite work the way they wanted it. And it was extremely frustrating. And they ended up saying, ah, I don't know if I'm even going to do this or I'm not. Maybe they've got something going, but they couldn't really say honestly that their life\nis better or easier yet. I don't think that's true for everybody. And I think that there's some sort of like wall that if you can push past, it will get\neasier, but it requires some diligence to push past that in your experience. Do you feel like my, my life is a hundred percent easier. It is so much smoother as, as you've built out all these different systems and agents and\nthings for your day to day work. And if the answer is yes, I'd be interested to know, like, what's your thought process,\nyour, like, how you, your scope on it, your view, as you start to build something new for the first time. I would say the answer is not yet. And I think that it's coming. I see people build these incredible workflows with N8n. I don't know if you've used N8n. I haven't yet. uh I was holding off because I was like, I only want to use things that are Google or\nOpenAI approved. Because I think that even just Google, I think Google will eat up all those tools. But then just... Recently, I saw that you can deploy N8n on Google Cloud now. So that's kind of interesting. Anyways, that's an aside. uh I see all these workflows of like, it's, you know, taking my email uh down to one hour\na week or something. And I'm like, man, that would be good. But I haven't been able to get anything to work. I actually set up, it wasn't N8n. I used Gemini to set up uh kind of an agentic flow that used an app script. uh thing, it was really complicated and it ended up deleting a bunch of like really\nimportant emails and unsubscribed me from from newsletters that I wanted to be subscribed to like it didn't work as expected. So what's working for me right now is I don't know how much I would call them agents but\njust prompts. So I use Gemini gems. So gems in case anybody doesn't know is um You can create, if there's any prompt that you use over and over again, you can make a gem\nout of it and you can put knowledge in the knowledge base. So, uh, I can put, you know, here's my document on, creating helpful content. Here's all the stuff I've written on that. And then I have a prompt that allows me to put a piece of content into it and then it'll\nmake suggestions for improvement. So. That's, I have a gem that does that. I have probably 50 different gems that I use, you know, on a weekly basis. uh One of them, some of them are not even necessarily SEO focused. I have one where I've started doing journaling uh for 10 minutes every day. set a timer and I just ramble on about like, here's what I want to accomplish today. Here's my frustrations. Here's, you know, what I, I'm not sure whether I should work on this or this. And then I have a gem that I created. that I've instructed it to challenge my false beliefs and uh to help me find direction. And it will find the patterns in all that I've written and say, know, Marie, last week you\nwere uh all excited about this and now you're being pulled in this direction. it really is a good brainstorming partner for me in that sense. um And then I have... uh I have some gems that I do client research with. I like to do reputation research for clients. And regularly I have gems that will go out and find the last month's uh worth of\ninformation they can find on people leaving reviews, people talking about a brand across the web. Now these are gems which eventually I will be able to put into a workflow. I saw that in Google Docs or in Google Workspace. Now some people are starting to see the opportunity to do workflows and you can tie these\ngems together essentially. uh And so we're getting to the point where I can do a client report and I can say, all\nright, I want um this agent or gem to go grab me metrics from Google Analytics. uh That's another thing I've been doing is playing with the GA4 MCP server. It was really, really cool. That's a whole other uh topic uh though. And then pass it on to this gem, which is going to look at whether the new content we\ncreated is actually getting any rankings or visitors. uh And then eventually I can see it where I have a system where all those agents work\ntogether. And that's what I'm excited about, but I'm nowhere near finishing that yet. But I think that that's how SEO is going to work, is that you're gonna be able to take the\nstuff that you do, put it into an AI system, and then have those prompts kinda all work together with each other. But you're right, like right now, I'm not setting up agentic workflows for clients or\nanything like that yet. I know some people have advertised they're doing it. uh I still... don't think that we're quite at the level uh where it's um consistent enough for me to\nrecommend doing that. Yeah, there may be some efficiency gains, but efficacy goes way down in a lot of cases. Like yeah. Now, maybe by the time this is published, we have Gemini 3. I've heard a lot of good things that Gemini 3 is going to be... Sunder Pichai said in the last earnings call that they've intentionally taken time before\nreleasing Gemini 3. I can't remember his exact words, but basically because they're going to be pushing out\nsomething really good. And so by the end of the year, we should have Gemini 3. And I think a lot of these things, I actually think that that's part of why Google hasn't\nmade it super easy to chain agents together yet, because they still need to get a little bit better, but they get like just a little bit better with each new model change, uh you\nknow, and then there's other things that have come out like the Gemini CLI is like mind blowing to play with, but there's only so many hours in the day to do these things. So bit by bit, I think, you if we have this conversation a couple of years from now, it\nwill be more cohesive that we can say, wow, okay, we could see the beginning starting in 2025. And then I think within a couple of years, it should just be a part of everybody's\nworkflow that a good amount of our cognitive knowledge and the things that we do that are maybe mundane. Like a lot of the keyword research, a lot of research that we do should just be replaced\nwith AI, but we're not quite there yet. Yeah. the areas that I have gotten stuck at when building projects is when I have something that\nrelies on a large amount of data, perhaps I'm trying to analyze several call transcripts at once or query analytics data or anytime I get even a moderate amount of information. My experience has been that almost every LLM has been fairly lazy and will act as though it's consumed all of the data when really\nit hasn't. It will consume maybe the top 10th of it and then respond accordingly. And, I'm wondering if you have any tips or tricks. Um, it seems like Google notebook LLM does like, we'll do a good job of like parsing\nthrough all of it. but then the outputs sometimes aren't ideal compared to the other models. So anyway, I'd love to hear your take and what you're experiencing there. Do you use BigQuery? I don't currently know. I really feel like I should be. There are some new things that Google announced within the last month or so for using AI\nwith BigQuery. And it looks like exactly what we need. There's just a bit of a learning curve, and there's so many things to learn that it's hard\nto know. um Just yesterday, Google announced that there's apparently conversational AI in Looker\nStudio. And so I think when we're looking at uh data that we can pull into Looker Studio that's a good place to go. um I think that when we see Gemini 3, there'll be another, like when we moved from Gemini\n2 to 2.5, there was a big upgrade in the context window and how much uh we could do with uh like how much information we could put into a tool. And then the other thing that I think uh is helpful in situations like this is using the\nlanguage models to write code. to then use that code to analyze our data. Because the code doesn't lie. The code doesn't hallucinate. And the problem is that most of us are not developers. Like I wouldn't know how to write code to fully end to to do something. But I've been able to create a bunch of stuff with, asked, uh I was trying to find a good\nRSS feed reader, like wait. talk about going back years and years and I didn't like any of them. So, you know I have this newsletter and I'm like trying to stay on top of everything. And then I asked, Chad GPT Codex. So that's a coding tool that you can use that uses GPT-5, now 5.1. And um it like built a tool for me. It took me maybe a couple hours of back and forth, but my back and forth was like. Can we make it orange? Like it was, you know, not coding things. And it works perfectly. I use it every single day. And now I have this big screen that has like every news story from every publication. I can easily add my own RSS feed to it. So I think when it comes to looking at our data, that will be something that's really\nvaluable is being able to write the code that does, you know, that takes the information from a spreadsheet. and does stuff with it or uh things like that. So uh yes, I think the language models will get better, but I think where we're gonna see\nhuge differences is in the language models writing code. I don't know, have you played with uh AI Studio, the apps builder? Only a little bit. And that was to use Nano Banana. I did it in the AI Studio. Yeah. So you can actually create workable apps. Logan Kilpatrick from Google said within a short period of time, like there's going to be\nmillions of apps created every day. And I don't think these are apps where you're like, I'm going to sell it on the app store\nand make a million dollars. think there are things that help you. So I, em when I record my podcast, I've yet to find an audio editor that I really like. And I use a Chromebook. I know that seems ridiculous, but I like Chromebooks for a lot of things. I have a like the highest end Chromebook you can get, but I still don't like, audacity doesn't work\non my Chromebook. And so like, I've been struggling every time I go to record a podcast, I'm like, Oh, but I\ncan't, I don't have an editor. And so I went to AI studio and I was like, can you build me an audio editor? And I just want something simple that I can listen to it. can cut out the parts that I don't want. And, uh, and then it can save the final file. I, the first time I tried it, it like didn't work the second time. It had all these bugs in it. I tried it a third time and it was perfect. I got like this editor that like I could sell, you know, it's, pretty amazing. So I would just encourage like anybody who's listening to this, try to build some stuff. There's an area in AI studio called build, and you can go there, just ask for like any\ntool that you want. Do you want something to optimize images for the web? It would do that. I have a GPT that does that for me. Um, but yeah, and, so I think that we will, I'm actually kind of worried about a lot of\nSaaS businesses because I think that a lot of what we do, uh, that we pay subscriptions for, we're soon going to be able to just tell AI like, go build that for me and it'll be\nalmost as good, you know, it's pretty wild. Yeah. I think, your experience with that audio editor is pretty interesting. It's we've been trained or maybe it's just built into us to try a thing. And if it doesn't work, then we assume problem with the system. It's not going to work. And at least that the current setup, we need to develop the habit of trying a thing and it\ndoesn't work and then just do it again. And it will be different. Like when you, uh prompted to get this uh editor. Did you change your approach within the three times or was it the same approach? You just had three times and third time it worked. Well, the first time I did it, uh my little feature of being able to cut out sections,\nlike if I had a big pause in something, because often when I'm doing a solo podcast, I'll stop for a minute and then think, and then I'll cut that out. And uh the cut, the play head would go back to the beginning of the track for me. And no matter how many times, this is a tip that I heard from somebody at Google was, If you're working with AI to create something and it just won't do what you're trying to\nget it to do, start over. And so I started over and in my initial prompt, said, I want to build this thing. We've had problems in the past with the play head returning to the beginning. So we need to make it so that when I, uh, select an area to cut the play head stays there. And so like right from the beginning, that was a mandate for the, for the tool. and then it. I can't remember how I changed it the third time. But I started off the prompt by saying like, this didn't work before. I really, think one of the reasons why I've had decent success with using AI is if you\ntreat it as if you're talking to a person, even though I know it's just math, it's just a bunch of numbers that are making predictions on what words to say. But if you actually kind of believe that you're talking to a person, you get more\naccomplished that way. uh It seems kind of silly, like I almost imagine that I have a developer sitting in a Slack channel or\nsomething that I'm like, okay, can you build this for me? then, and then he or she comes back with a tool and I'm like, it didn't work, but let's\ntry it this way, you know? And, and that seems to be, I think a lot of having success with language models is just\ntrying stuff and believing it's going to work. And then like a lot of the stuff I build doesn't work. I've built so many things. I sort of have a new rule for myself that if I've been working on something and super\nfrustrated for a number of hours, then I need to stop and either go back, try it from the beginning again, or just abandon that. But I think it's really important for us to play with these things because right now it's\ndifficult, but then all of those mistakes that I made will make my next project easier to do. My favorite Thomas Edison quote where he says, I haven't failed a thousand or 10,000\ntimes. I've just found 10,000 ways that didn't work. I think that that's really important when you're working with AI is, is to know that it's\nnot going to be perfect every time, which is not easy for us to, to grasp because we're used to using tools that have perfect outputs. And so for me, AI is like a brainstorming partner as opposed to like a perfect tool. Yeah. So McKinsey, released an article, uh, based on a study saying that only 1 % of business\nleaders say their firms are truly AI mature. Uh, and by that they're saying fully integrating technology into workflows. And then Gartner predicts that, uh, 40 % of, uh, current agent tech AI projects are\nactually going to be canceled by 2027. Um, So there's clearly, you believe that? Yeah. Yeah yeah. I I just said, think out of, if I try a hundred different projects, maybe five of them\nmight work, you know, to something I bring to production. We're in a learning phase. There's a, I don't know if it was that McKinsey study. There's one that says that 95 % of businesses that have implemented AI have failed,\nsomething like that. But that study was done based on 52 interviews and it's getting quoted all over the place. So I think there are a ton of people that are building stuff and being successful with AI\nthat aren't publishing about it. They're not sharing their successes for their competitors to see. So I do think we're still in the learning phase and I don't think this is something that's\ngonna stop. Like I don't think that... We can say, well, this is a technology that doesn't work. Therefore, I'm not going to pay attention to it. If you can persist at this point, then when it does start to be, I mean, if you think\nlike, why are there trillions of dollars being poured into AI by these big companies? Like they wouldn't do that if there wasn't a strong belief that it's going to be the\ntechnology that changes the world. yeah, I think that I think it's a frustrating time for a lot of businesses. uh because they're pouring money into uh creating things that, you know, the technology that\nwe've used to create them is gonna change a month from now. But I still think that it's important for businesses to be trying and to be testing what\nthey can do. Yeah, this this question maybe like I'm not in finance. You're not in finance. Maybe this is brings a little out of our depth. But you know, everywhere it seems like people are predicting the AI bubble and the AI\ncrash. um You have Microsoft investing in OpenAI, OpenAI investing in Nvidia on the condition\nthat it sells Microsoft its chips. And so you have these like large sums of money actually just moving around in a circle that make it feel like there's\na lot of commerce happen. I don't know that's entirely a true representation of exactly what's happening, although\nit is happening. Given that everybody knows about AI, but very few people truly know the capabilities, how\nit functions, and this sort of mass hysteria starting to build around this crash is coming. Curious as somebody who, you you're in it every single day in the depths of it and where\nalso you're reading a lot about what's coming next. What's your opinion on the likelihood of a crash and if it does happen, what kind of\nimpact do you foresee that having on these future developments of its capabilities? Okay, so you're right that I'm not a financial person. em With that said, I have investments and they're all in AI companies. uh And, you know, they're all doing fairly well at this point. And I plan to continue that. really think, I think that a lot of what we read about AI comes from mainstream media that\nhas good reason to dislike AI. mean, technology changes how we get information. uh You know, my husband and I were just watching, we've been watching uh this podcast called\nthe Fall of Civilizations podcast. And it talks about like throughout all of history, how uh new technology comes along and\nit changes, you know, and it always causes uh people to be angry and to fight. And so, I think a lot of the predictions that we see are based on this anger and fear. Now, Metta, there was... some talk about how they were spending like $100 million per employee to bring people from\nother AI companies into work at Metta. And the, the, I'm going to maybe butcher what Mark Zuckerberg said, but my understanding\nwas, uh, what he said was essentially, if you truly believe that AGI, um, is going to radically change the world in the way that these AI companies do, then money means\nnothing. That's kind of hard to grasp. But then I watched the Tesla earnings call recently and Elon has this, I know like it's\nnot very popular. Elon's not very popular, but I think we need to pay attention to what he says that\noptimist robots will radically change the economy, like radically change the economy. And it's too hard for us to grasp because right now we're talking about, well, I can't\neven get AI to, uh you know, like really optimize my work day. Am I really gonna have a robot that, you know, changes my life? But we're gonna continue to get better and better at producing AI and producing AI that is\nable to do things in robots. And so robots will uh radically uh like 10X or more the amount of production that you can\nget. Like one person can produce this much, one robot in a factory or doing some certain work. can do dramatically more. And so he predicts that the world will get to a place where we have so much production\nfrom these robots and from AI that the actual humans don't need to work. It was kind of wild and there's like even he says, you know, that's one possible path and\nthen the other path is that things go bad, which is kind of scary. but I actually do believe that we'll continue. It's hard for us to see because we're in the early stages. We're in the midst of it right now, but that economy will, AI will improve the businesses\nthat really stick with it and can use it. for example, my little agents that I'm using to like improve content or to, um, you know,\nlook at Google analytics when they start working together, then they're gonna, they're gonna. do like 100 times the work that I could do uh and help my clients 100 times more than I\ncould do and make them more money and that will stimulate the economy and again, I'm not an economist but I have maybe an overly optimistic view of uh the future because I think\nthat we will go through some difficult times. I think there's gonna be some job loss and some uh very challenging times but I think on\nthe other side, there is going to be an era of prosperity. And I do think that this is why the meta Google Open AI, Microsoft, you know, and Tesla,\nor X AI are putting so much money into this because uh the benefits on the other side are potentially huge for society. Hmm. Yeah. Yeah, that's interesting. I feel a little doubtful about that future of, no humans won't have to work. And I'd say maybe the precedent is the current day where you can go back a hundred years\nand say this internet is going to come out and these phones in your pocket and you want to do anything. And really what ended up happening is we're just now expected to do 10 times more than we\nwere before. However, there's also much more abundance, I think, than people recognize. I'm talking to you from Utah, you're up in Canada, and we're both in nice air\nconditioning. We're not, you know, harvesting uh out in the sun, you whatever. So uh it may be some mix, I guess, of the two as it develops. I hope that I don't. I hope I uh don't have a life free of work. You know, I enjoy work and I want to keep doing that. I'm with you. I don't think that we're going to ever get to a point where we don't have work. I think that the nature of our work will change. You know, if you told people a hundred years ago that you and I would be doing what we're\ndoing now and that this would be potentially a revenue driver, whatever, like that wouldn't, that wouldn't even register on what they knew, you know? And so I think a hundred years from now we'll have similar, uh, you know, people will,\nwe'll have jobs, but they won't be. what we do today. think a lot of, and then I get really excited when I think about medicine. I think we're living in a dark age of like, you know, we've got a pill for this and a pill\nfor that and everybody's eating uh junk food. and uh I think that AI has great potential to improve our health um tremendously. And so we're going to look back at this age and go, I can't believe people lived in pain\nor, know, with all these vague sicknesses. And I do think maybe naively that AI can fix that. I believe that. Yeah, I think that's true. There's a lot of application there. um Well, Marie, I'd love to end kind of where we ended last time, which is today. What would you recommend marketers be thinking about experimenting with playing with to\nmaybe set themselves up well for the next six to 12 months? All right, so I probably said this last time is just learn to use the language models and\nuh chat, GPT, Gemini and Claude, even Grok, uh I use Grok a fair amount, but em I would say like almost daily, you should be just trying to do stuff with them. And because it's almost, it is like learning a new language, like learning how to\ncommunicate. I was at a conference recently and I was talking about something I was doing with ChatGPT\nthat seemed really normal to me. And a woman looked at me and she's like, you and I do not use AI the same. And I realized that it's just sort of, again, like a new language, trying to communicate. So learn to use the language models. um What else? I would recommend that everybody tries to code something, learns to vibe code. A good place to start is at first to learn the basics of Python. Google has a really good free crash course on Python that is worth learning. And I think that we're going to have this era where anybody can code something and for a\nlittle while, the people who can code stuff can sell that stuff that you've coded or can use it to give you a big advantage. And so um I already see like people all over the place saying, don't vibe code. There's like security issues. There's whatever those will, I mean, they'll be there, but uh AI will also make those improve. So I think that if you can learn to vibe code and one of the best ways to do it is to take\nyour favorite language model and say, I'm brand new. Like teach me, walk me one step at a time. If it gives you this massive output of like 15 steps to do, I usually say, remember I can\nonly do one thing at a time. pretend you're my assistant sitting next to me and give me the next step. And I went from like not knowing how to code at all to uh a chat GPT saying like download\nVS code and here's how you install it. like, know, and now, you know, I can create some stuff that I can use. I'm not actually selling, although I'm working on some stuff that like I actually think uh\nwill be very, uh you know, able to sell. So yeah, so I would say learn to code. and then I would say, uh, pay attention to what the AI leaders are saying, not what the\nmedia is quoting them on because they will grab a quote that, then, and then you think like, saw a thing recently that, uh, it was an interview with Sam Altman and the guy said,\nare you building a bunker? How did you see this? The guy said, are you building a bunker? Like, because of the fear of what AI is going to do the world. And Sam Altman was like, well, no, I have a basement. And the guy was like, well, does your basement have reinforced walls? And he's like, well, yeah, it's a well built basement. And then all of the media was like, Sam Altman's building a bunker because he's afraid of\nwhat AI is going to do. I would encourage people to so what I do when I'm cooking dinner every night is I have\nsome type of, you know, AI leader and I'm listening to what they're saying. Yes, they might have some incentive, some financial incentive to uh But I do believe that em they believe that they're changing humanity. And so I would say pay attention to the AI leaders and what they're saying. Okay, some great takeaways. love that. Marie, thank you so much for the work that you do. And thank you for joining today and sharing a little bit about what you're working on. ah What would be the yeah, what would be the best way for listeners to reach out to you? um I'd love to have you join me in my community. It's community.mariehaines.com. And I share all about like everything that I've learned about AI is in the free area. And then we have a paid area with uh a small group of us that are just building stuff and\nlearning how to do things with AI. um You can find me on X and LinkedIn as well, Marie Hanes. And uh yeah, I'm always happy to share my thoughts and answer questions. Okay. Great. yeah, please reach out to, to Marie join our community. so much, great information and, yeah, she is spending a lot of time reading patents,\nreading news, staying updated, and then turning around and sharing that with people. So, uh, a lot of value to be, to be gained by joining. So, yeah, great Marie. Thank you so much. We'd love to have you back again. this has been a pleasure. Sounds good, yeah, great to chat. That's all for today everybody. If you enjoyed this episode, please consider leaving us a five star rating and subscribe\nso you don't miss future episodes. Thank you to Dr. Marie Haynes for joining us today. You can find her at MarieHanes.com to read her blog and check out her newsletter. You can also find past episodes of the campaign and examples of our work at 97thFloor.com. You can also learn more about the agency and get in touch with a marketing specialist if\nyou want support for your own marketing campaigns. That's it for now. Thank you for listening Until then, keep innovating, keep converting."}